# oisst_warming_trends

Accompanying code repository with scripts and programs for the paper:

> Reduced nearshore warming associated with Eastern Boundary Upwelling Systems.

> Rui Seabra, Rubén Varela, António M. Santos, Moncho Gomez-Gesteira, Claudia Meneghesso, David S. Wethey, Fernando P. Lima.

> Frontiers in Marine Science, 2019.

The repository is structured as follows:
- `preliminary_system_check.R`: this script conveniently checks if all libraries, programs and required data is present/installed in the machine, and in the correct locations.
- `oisst_download.R`: this script downloads all oisst files available in the NOAA server and manages the local oisst repository; it then converts daily data into time-series cores and computes warming trend stats for all locations with oisst data.
- `oisst_warming_trends.R`: this script uses the outputs generated by `oisst_download.R`, runs the analysis and produces all final output files (plots and stats).
- `prepare_clean_run.R`: this script deletes all output folders and files so that a new, clean run can be performed if necessary.
- `sstcoremulti`: C++ program to convert the daily oisst local repository into time-series cores.

The code provided allows the reproduction of the analysis from scratch, and up to the production of all figures and tables with the necessary stats. **questions about the code or analysis should be directed to ruisea@gmail.com** 

**IMPORTANT REMARK:** The code was designed to run on a 160 thread local server with 1.5 TB of RAM. It makes frequent use of parallel computations and deals with several "dificult" computations simply by using brute-force. Please bear in mind that if this code is to be run in a regular machine more efficient memory management and a lot of patience may be required...